Dataset Details
The Kvasir dataset consists of images, annotated and verified by medical doctors (experienced endoscopists), including several classes showing anatomical landmarks, phatological findings or endoscopic procedures in the GI tract, i.e., hundreds of images for each class. The number of images is sufficient to be used for different tasks, e.g., image retrieval, machine learning, deep learning and transfer learning, etc. The anatomical landmarks include Z-line, pylorus, cecum, etc., while the pathological finding includes esophagitis, polyps, ulcerative colitis, etc. In addition, we provide several set of images related to removal of lesions, e.g., "dyed and lifted polyp", the "dyed resection margins", etc. The dataset consist of the images with different resolution from 720x576 up to 1920x1072 pixels and organized in a way where they are sorted in separate folders named accordingly to the content. Some of the included classes of images have a green picture in picture illustrating the position and configuration of the endoscope inside the bowel, by use of an electromagnetic imaging system (ScopeGuide, Olympus Europe) that may support the interpretation of the image. This type of information may be important for later investigations (thus included), but must be handled with care for the detection of the endoscopic findings.

Suggested Metrics
Looking at the list of related work in this area, there are a lot of different metrics used, with potentially different names when used in the medical area and the computer science (information retrieval) area. Here, we provide a small list of the most important metrics. For future research, in addition to describing the dataset with respect to total number of images, total number of images in each class and total number of positives, it might be good to provide as many of the metrics below as possible in order to enable an indirect comparison with older work:

True positive (TP) The number of correctly identified samples. The number of frames with an endoscopic finding which correctly is identified as a frame with an endoscopic finding.
True negative (TN) The number of correctly identified negative samples, i.e., frames without an endoscopic finding which correctly is identified as a frame without an endoscopic finding.
False positive (FP) The number of wrongly identified samples, i.e., a commonly called a "false alarm". Frames without an endoscopic finding which is erroneously identified as a frame with an endoscopic finding.
False negative (FN) The number of wrongly identified negative samples. Frames without an endoscopic finding which erroneously is identified as a frame with an endoscopic finding.
Recall (REC) This metric is also frequently called sensitivity, probability of detection and true positive rate, and it is the ratio of samples that are correctly identified as positive among all existing positive samples.
Precision (PREC) This metric is also frequently called the positive predictive value, and shows the ratio of samples that are correctly identified as positive among the returned samples (the fraction of retrieved samples that are relevant).
Specificity (SPEC) This metric is frequently called the true negative rate, and shows the ratio of negatives that are correctly identified as such (e.g., the fraction of frames without an endoscopic finding are correctly identified as a negative result).
Accuracy (ACC) The percentage of correctly identified true and false samples.
Matthews correlation coefficient (MCC) MCC takes into account true and false positives and negatives, and is a balanced measure even if the classes are of very different sizes.
F1 score (F1) A measure of a test’s accuracy by calculating the harmonic mean of the precision and recall.
In addition to the above metrics, system performance metrics processing speed and resource consumption are of interest. In our work, we have used the achieved frame-rate (FPS) as a metric as real-time feedback is important.

